README.md, before:

# Disco
## Dependencies

Dependencies for DiscoDB and RemixDB

Supported on Ubuntu Jammy 22.04 (CloudLab default image)

```
apt-get -y install sudo git build-essential cmake clang python3 parallel python-is-python3 \
  python3-pip libcairo2-dev pkg-config python3-dev smartmontools
```

Dependencies for building RocksDB

```
apt-get -y install libgflags-dev libsnappy-dev zlib1g-dev libbz2-dev liblz4-dev libzstd-dev
```

Dependencies for building bcc

```
apt-get install -y zip bison build-essential cmake flex git libedit-dev \
  libllvm14 llvm-14-dev libclang-14-dev python3 zlib1g-dev libelf-dev libfl-dev python3-setuptools \
  liblzma-dev libdebuginfod-dev arping netperf iperf
```

Build bcc from source

```
cd
git clone https://github.com/iovisor/bcc.git
cd bcc
git checkout v0.30.0
git submodule update
mkdir build; cd build
cmake ..
make -j$(nproc)
sudo make install
cmake -DPYTHON_CMD=python3 .. # build python3 binding
pushd src/python/
make -j$(nproc)
sudo make install
popd
```

Clone the code

```
cd
git clone https://github.com/SheldonZhong/disco.git
```

Build RocksDB and setup the header file

```
cd
git clone https://github.com/facebook/rocksdb.git
cd ~/rocksdb
git checkout v8.10.0
make -j$(nproc) static_lib
cp ./librocksdb.a ~/disco
mkdir -p ~/disco/include/rocksdb
cp ~/rocksdb/include/rocksdb/c.h ~/disco/include/rocksdb
```

Install python package dependencies for plotting graphs
```
cd ~/disco
pip install -r ./requirements.txt
```

There is also a script `./scripts/setup_cloudlab` that does this all,
assuming you have this repo cloned in `~/disco`.

## Run micro-benchmark
We are still working on how to share our dataset files so people can access it anonymously.
For now, it should work with a plain text file with one key each line, if you have your own dataset.
`-n <number of keys>` specifies number of keys that the program considers.
There will eventually be about 75% of the keys actually inserted.
Table files have internal limitations of 256MB in size.
You will have to adjust the number of keys and value lengths accordingly.
```
./scripts/microbench -k <key file>
                     -n <number of keys>
                     -v <value length>
                     -q <number of queries>
                     -r <uniform/zipfian/unizipf>
                     -m <mixed/existing/non-existing>

./scripts/microbench -k <email address key> -n 2393134 -v 120 -r uniform -m mixed -q 100000
```

After that it should generate a folder `trace-<timestamp>` and a matching CSV file `trace-<timestamp>.csv`,
where `<timestamp>` has a format that looks like `trace-2024-05-05-18-32-17`.

You can generate the plots in the paper by
```
./scripts/plot_microbench.py trace-<timestamp>
```
This will generate `intro-exp.pdf`, `eval_seek_8.pdf`, and `eval_probe_8_mixed.pdf`
Do remember to install the python package dependencies for plotting.

## Run database experiments

You need root / sudo to make `bcc`, `smartctl`, and some more tools work.

All these experiments have a similar file output.
The output will have the format of `<prefix>-<suffix>.log`, where `<prefix>` has the format
```
<workload>-<timestamp>-<commit_hash>-<db_name>-<number_of_keys>-<key_length>-<value_length>
```
In this loading experiment, the `<workload>` is `load`.
The `<suffix>` could be
```
- start-smart: the smartctl output before the experiment
- end-smart: the smartctl output after the experiment
- out: the stdout during the experiment
- err: the stderr during the experiment
- bio: the aggregate I/O traces using bcc
- <empty>: the log of the database
```
The script will also generate a CSV file having the prefix and ending with `.csv` that
is used by the python scripts to plot the figures.

For the loading experiments and read experiments, the names and meanings of the columns of the CSV files are:
- sysname: the name of the system, e.g., full/dummy/discodb/remixdb/rdb
- mem: the memory limit that the experiment runs with
- klen: the length of the keys used in this experiment
- vlen: the length of the values used in this experiment
- thread: the number of threads this experiment runs with
- nkv: the total number of key-value pairs in the system
- rgen: the random number generator used for the distributions of the operations, e.g., uniform/unizipf/shuffle
- verb: the name of the operations being benchmarked in the experiment, e.g., set/pro/seeknext
- nsec: the number of seconds spent on this experiment
- num\_ops: the number of operations performed during this experiment
- ops: operations per second, calculated by dividing the num\_ops by nsec
- bio\_write\_io: the write I/O count from bio
- bio\_read\_io: the read I/O count from bio
- bio\_write\_bytes: the write bytes from bio
- bio\_read\_bytes: the read bytes from bio
- stats\_write\_io: the write I/O count from disk stats
- stats\_read\_io: the read I/O count from disk stats
- stats\_write\_sectors: the write sector counts from disk stats
- stats\_read\_sectors: the read sector counts from disk stats
- sctl\_write\_io: the write I/O count from smartctl
- sctl\_read\_io: the read I/O count from smartctl
- sctl\_write\_bytes: the write bytes from smartctl
- sctl\_read\_bytes: the read bytes from smartctl

For the YCSB experiments, the CSV columns are:
- sysname:
- workload: the name of the YCSB workload for this experiment
- mem:
- klen:
- vlen:
- rgen:
- nsec:
- nops:
- ops:
- nset: the number of update operations in this experiment
- nupd: the number of merge operations in this experiment
- nget: the number of read operations in this experiment
- nscan: the number of scan and next operation in this experiment

We will later use scripts to parse, extract, and plot the output.

### Use one script to repeat the experiments and reproduce the plots in the paper

```
# Full-Index
./scripts/eval full <mount_point> <checkpoint_path>
# No-Index
./scripts/eval dummy <mount_point> <checkpoint_path>
# DiscoDB
./scripts/eval discodb <mount_point> <checkpoint_path>
# RemixDB
./scripts/eval remixdb <mount_point> <checkpoint_path>
# RocksDB
./scripts/eval rocksdb <mount_point> <checkpoint_path>
```

In the command above, the `<mount_point>` should be where the systems run on and the `<checkpoint_path>` should be on a different drive that is used to store a backup of a freshly loaded database for later use in YCSB experiments.

For each system, it will create following folders (take DiscoDB as example):
- load-discodb-16G
- load-discodb-32G
- load-discodb-64G
- read-discodb-16G
- read-discodb-32G
- read-discodb-64G
- ycsb-discodb-16G

#### Plotting the results

Once the experiments of all five systems are done, we could gather the CSV results by
```
cat load*/*.csv > load_exp.csv
cat read*/*.csv > read_exp.csv
cat ycsb*/*.csv > ycsb_exp.csv
```
Note: to accelerate reproducing the experiments, it is possible to run the 5 systems in 5 different machines and then manually collect the results in one machine.

After the results are gathered, we can plot them by
```
./script/plot_load_exp.py ./load_exp.csv
./script/plot_read_exp.py ./read_exp.csv
./script/plot_ycsb.py ./ycsb_exp.csv
```

The scripts will save the vector plots in PDF format in a folder named `figs`.

### Run individual experiments

#### Loading experiments

`./scripts/load_exp` loads a database.
It will write the specified number of keys in shuffled order.
It loads the DB in 200 rounds, outputing one line of stat each round to both `stderr` and `stdout`.

To run a loading experiment
```
`./scripts/load_exp <db_name> <number_of_keys> <key_length> <value_length> <mount_point>`

# DiscoDB
./scripts/load_exp discodb 1010580539 16 120 <mount_point>
# RemixDB
./scripts/load_exp remixdb 1010580539 16 120 <mount_point>
# RocksDB
./scripts/load_exp rdb 1010580539 16 120 <mount_point>
# Full-Index
./scripts/load_exp full 1010580539 16 120 <mount_point>
# No-Index
./scripts/load_exp dummy 1010580539 16 120 <mount_point>
```

#### Read experiments

`./scripts/read_bench` runs the read experiments.
It will first warm up the page cache then perform the read experiments.
There are four sets of experiments: uniform range query (seek), uniform point queries (probe),
skewed range query, and skewed point query.

```
# DiscoDB
./scripts/read_bench discodb 1010580539 16 120 <mount_point>
# RemixDB
./scripts/read_bench remixdb 1010580539 16 120 <mount_point>
# RocksDB
./scripts/read_bench rdb  1010580539 16 120 <mount_point>
# Full-Index
./scripts/read_bench full 1010580539 16 120 <mount_point>
# No-Index
./scripts/read_bench dummy  1010580539 16 120 <mount_point>
```

Note here that we open RocksDB in read-only mode to make sure all systems are evaluated equally.

#### YCSB

`./scripts/ycsb` runs the YCSB experiments.
It will first warmup the page cache then run the YCSB workloads from A to F.

```
# DiscoDB
./scripts/ycsb discodb 1010580539 16 120 <mount_point> [checkpoint_path]
# RemixDB
./scripts/ycsb remixdb 1010580539 16 120 <mount_point> [checkpoint_path]
# RocksDB
./scripts/ycsb rdb  1010580539 16 120 <mount_point> [checkpoint_path]
# Full-Index
./scripts/ycsb full 1010580539 16 120 <mount_point> [checkpoint_path]
# No-Index
./scripts/ycsb dummy 1010580539 16 120 <mount_point> [checkpoint_path]
```

`[checkpoint_path]` for this script is an optional argument.
*Note*: since the loading experiments and YCSB write to the database,
the results might be inconsistent if no `[checkpoint_path]` is provided.

#### Run experiments with different memory budgets

`./scripts/run_cgroups` could be used to run experiments under different memory budgets.
It will run whatever is given to the argument with 16G, 32G, and 64G memory budgets.
It then moves all `*.log` files into a directory.

For example
```
./scripts/run_cgroups ./scripts/read_bench discodb 1010580539 16 120 <mount_point>
./scripts/run_cgroups ./scripts/read_bench rdb 1010580539 16 120 <mount_point>
```

Commit message:

add a section in readme for the paper

README.md, after:

# Disco

This is the repository for paper
Disco: A Compact Index for LSM-trees.

## Dependencies

Dependencies for DiscoDB and RemixDB

Supported on Ubuntu Jammy 22.04 (CloudLab default image)

```
apt-get -y install sudo git build-essential cmake clang python3 parallel python-is-python3 \
  python3-pip libcairo2-dev pkg-config python3-dev smartmontools
```

Dependencies for building RocksDB

```
apt-get -y install libgflags-dev libsnappy-dev zlib1g-dev libbz2-dev liblz4-dev libzstd-dev
```

Dependencies for building bcc

```
apt-get install -y zip bison build-essential cmake flex git libedit-dev \
  libllvm14 llvm-14-dev libclang-14-dev python3 zlib1g-dev libelf-dev libfl-dev python3-setuptools \
  liblzma-dev libdebuginfod-dev arping netperf iperf
```

Build bcc from source

```
cd
git clone https://github.com/iovisor/bcc.git
cd bcc
git checkout v0.30.0
git submodule update
mkdir build; cd build
cmake ..
make -j$(nproc)
sudo make install
cmake -DPYTHON_CMD=python3 .. # build python3 binding
pushd src/python/
make -j$(nproc)
sudo make install
popd
```

Clone the code

```
cd
git clone https://github.com/SheldonZhong/disco.git
```

Build RocksDB and setup the header file

```
cd
git clone https://github.com/facebook/rocksdb.git
cd ~/rocksdb
git checkout v8.10.0
make -j$(nproc) static_lib
cp ./librocksdb.a ~/disco
mkdir -p ~/disco/include/rocksdb
cp ~/rocksdb/include/rocksdb/c.h ~/disco/include/rocksdb
```

Install python package dependencies for plotting graphs
```
cd ~/disco
pip install -r ./requirements.txt
```

There is also a script `./scripts/setup_cloudlab` that does this all,
assuming you have this repo cloned in `~/disco`.

## Run micro-benchmark
We are still working on how to share our dataset files so people can access it anonymously.
For now, it should work with a plain text file with one key each line, if you have your own dataset.
`-n <number of keys>` specifies number of keys that the program considers.
There will eventually be about 75% of the keys actually inserted.
Table files have internal limitations of 256MB in size.
You will have to adjust the number of keys and value lengths accordingly.
```
./scripts/microbench -k <key file>
                     -n <number of keys>
                     -v <value length>
                     -q <number of queries>
                     -r <uniform/zipfian/unizipf>
                     -m <mixed/existing/non-existing>

./scripts/microbench -k <email address key> -n 2393134 -v 120 -r uniform -m mixed -q 100000
```

After that it should generate a folder `trace-<timestamp>` and a matching CSV file `trace-<timestamp>.csv`,
where `<timestamp>` has a format that looks like `trace-2024-05-05-18-32-17`.

You can generate the plots in the paper by
```
./scripts/plot_microbench.py trace-<timestamp>
```
This will generate `intro-exp.pdf`, `eval_seek_8.pdf`, and `eval_probe_8_mixed.pdf`
Do remember to install the python package dependencies for plotting.

## Run database experiments

You need root / sudo to make `bcc`, `smartctl`, and some more tools work.

All these experiments have a similar file output.
The output will have the format of `<prefix>-<suffix>.log`, where `<prefix>` has the format
```
<workload>-<timestamp>-<commit_hash>-<db_name>-<number_of_keys>-<key_length>-<value_length>
```
In this loading experiment, the `<workload>` is `load`.
The `<suffix>` could be
```
- start-smart: the smartctl output before the experiment
- end-smart: the smartctl output after the experiment
- out: the stdout during the experiment
- err: the stderr during the experiment
- bio: the aggregate I/O traces using bcc
- <empty>: the log of the database
```
The script will also generate a CSV file having the prefix and ending with `.csv` that
is used by the python scripts to plot the figures.

For the loading experiments and read experiments, the names and meanings of the columns of the CSV files are:
- sysname: the name of the system, e.g., full/dummy/discodb/remixdb/rdb
- mem: the memory limit that the experiment runs with
- klen: the length of the keys used in this experiment
- vlen: the length of the values used in this experiment
- thread: the number of threads this experiment runs with
- nkv: the total number of key-value pairs in the system
- rgen: the random number generator used for the distributions of the operations, e.g., uniform/unizipf/shuffle
- verb: the name of the operations being benchmarked in the experiment, e.g., set/pro/seeknext
- nsec: the number of seconds spent on this experiment
- num\_ops: the number of operations performed during this experiment
- ops: operations per second, calculated by dividing the num\_ops by nsec
- bio\_write\_io: the write I/O count from bio
- bio\_read\_io: the read I/O count from bio
- bio\_write\_bytes: the write bytes from bio
- bio\_read\_bytes: the read bytes from bio
- stats\_write\_io: the write I/O count from disk stats
- stats\_read\_io: the read I/O count from disk stats
- stats\_write\_sectors: the write sector counts from disk stats
- stats\_read\_sectors: the read sector counts from disk stats
- sctl\_write\_io: the write I/O count from smartctl
- sctl\_read\_io: the read I/O count from smartctl
- sctl\_write\_bytes: the write bytes from smartctl
- sctl\_read\_bytes: the read bytes from smartctl

For the YCSB experiments, the CSV columns are:
- sysname:
- workload: the name of the YCSB workload for this experiment
- mem:
- klen:
- vlen:
- rgen:
- nsec:
- nops:
- ops:
- nset: the number of update operations in this experiment
- nupd: the number of merge operations in this experiment
- nget: the number of read operations in this experiment
- nscan: the number of scan and next operation in this experiment

We will later use scripts to parse, extract, and plot the output.

### Use one script to repeat the experiments and reproduce the plots in the paper

```
# Full-Index
./scripts/eval full <mount_point> <checkpoint_path>
# No-Index
./scripts/eval dummy <mount_point> <checkpoint_path>
# DiscoDB
./scripts/eval discodb <mount_point> <checkpoint_path>
# RemixDB
./scripts/eval remixdb <mount_point> <checkpoint_path>
# RocksDB
./scripts/eval rocksdb <mount_point> <checkpoint_path>
```

In the command above, the `<mount_point>` should be where the systems run on and the `<checkpoint_path>` should be on a different drive that is used to store a backup of a freshly loaded database for later use in YCSB experiments.

For each system, it will create following folders (take DiscoDB as example):
- load-discodb-16G
- load-discodb-32G
- load-discodb-64G
- read-discodb-16G
- read-discodb-32G
- read-discodb-64G
- ycsb-discodb-16G

#### Plotting the results

Once the experiments of all five systems are done, we could gather the CSV results by
```
cat load*/*.csv > load_exp.csv
cat read*/*.csv > read_exp.csv
cat ycsb*/*.csv > ycsb_exp.csv
```
Note: to accelerate reproducing the experiments, it is possible to run the 5 systems in 5 different machines and then manually collect the results in one machine.

After the results are gathered, we can plot them by
```
./script/plot_load_exp.py ./load_exp.csv
./script/plot_read_exp.py ./read_exp.csv
./script/plot_ycsb.py ./ycsb_exp.csv
```

The scripts will save the vector plots in PDF format in a folder named `figs`.

### Run individual experiments

#### Loading experiments

`./scripts/load_exp` loads a database.
It will write the specified number of keys in shuffled order.
It loads the DB in 200 rounds, outputing one line of stat each round to both `stderr` and `stdout`.

To run a loading experiment
```
`./scripts/load_exp <db_name> <number_of_keys> <key_length> <value_length> <mount_point>`

# DiscoDB
./scripts/load_exp discodb 1010580539 16 120 <mount_point>
# RemixDB
./scripts/load_exp remixdb 1010580539 16 120 <mount_point>
# RocksDB
./scripts/load_exp rdb 1010580539 16 120 <mount_point>
# Full-Index
./scripts/load_exp full 1010580539 16 120 <mount_point>
# No-Index
./scripts/load_exp dummy 1010580539 16 120 <mount_point>
```

#### Read experiments

`./scripts/read_bench` runs the read experiments.
It will first warm up the page cache then perform the read experiments.
There are four sets of experiments: uniform range query (seek), uniform point queries (probe),
skewed range query, and skewed point query.

```
# DiscoDB
./scripts/read_bench discodb 1010580539 16 120 <mount_point>
# RemixDB
./scripts/read_bench remixdb 1010580539 16 120 <mount_point>
# RocksDB
./scripts/read_bench rdb  1010580539 16 120 <mount_point>
# Full-Index
./scripts/read_bench full 1010580539 16 120 <mount_point>
# No-Index
./scripts/read_bench dummy  1010580539 16 120 <mount_point>
```

Note here that we open RocksDB in read-only mode to make sure all systems are evaluated equally.

#### YCSB

`./scripts/ycsb` runs the YCSB experiments.
It will first warmup the page cache then run the YCSB workloads from A to F.

```
# DiscoDB
./scripts/ycsb discodb 1010580539 16 120 <mount_point> [checkpoint_path]
# RemixDB
./scripts/ycsb remixdb 1010580539 16 120 <mount_point> [checkpoint_path]
# RocksDB
./scripts/ycsb rdb  1010580539 16 120 <mount_point> [checkpoint_path]
# Full-Index
./scripts/ycsb full 1010580539 16 120 <mount_point> [checkpoint_path]
# No-Index
./scripts/ycsb dummy 1010580539 16 120 <mount_point> [checkpoint_path]
```

`[checkpoint_path]` for this script is an optional argument.
*Note*: since the loading experiments and YCSB write to the database,
the results might be inconsistent if no `[checkpoint_path]` is provided.

#### Run experiments with different memory budgets

`./scripts/run_cgroups` could be used to run experiments under different memory budgets.
It will run whatever is given to the argument with 16G, 32G, and 64G memory budgets.
It then moves all `*.log` files into a directory.

For example
```
./scripts/run_cgroups ./scripts/read_bench discodb 1010580539 16 120 <mount_point>
./scripts/run_cgroups ./scripts/read_bench rdb 1010580539 16 120 <mount_point>
```
